Engineering Diary
Habib
Day 1: Introduction to Git and GitHub
We have decided that we will use GitHub and Git for our group project. Initially, I had no idea how to use them, so I created a GitHub account. I was invited to a repository by my group member Samuel, who had created it and invited all the group members.

Day 2: Learning Git Commands
I had a lot of trouble with Git commands at first, as I did not know how to navigate through it, so I watched a lot of tutorial videos. I eventually learned how to move through my files and understand where I was. First, I ran git pull using the repository URL to download the files.

Day 3: Committing Changes
After that, I made some changes to one of the files to try out committing. Once I ensured that I was in the right directory, I used git commit -m with a message, followed by git push to upload the changes. I successfully did my first commit.

Day 4: Git Commands Overview
I used several commands to navigate through Git in order to commit or open files or pull:

ls: To know where I am and which folder I have.
cd "file name": To open the file.
cd ..: To go back from the file.
git status: To get a summary of which files have changes that are staged for the commit.
git pull: Used with the URL link to get the files from the repository.
git commit: When I was ready to commit the snapshot of the staged changes.
git push: To send it to the repository.
Day 5: HTML Burger Menu
I decided to take responsibility for the burger menu. I already had Visual Studio Code installed, so I started with HTML code. I had no idea how HTML worked, so I looked it up and began working on the menu. I added three burgers: Classic hamburgare, cheeseburgare, Veggie burgare, and I added a checkbox in every burger menu.

Day 6: Checkbox Implementation Challenges
It was a bit challenging from start to finish, especially when I added checkboxes to each burger option. The checkboxes contain three alternatives for each burger menu. It took a while to get it done.

Day 7: Project Challenges
Throughout our project, we encountered several challenges, particularly in understanding the scope and requirements of the project. Determining where to begin setting up the kitchen view using Flask and configuring the necessary environment posed significant difficulties, especially when installing required packages such as pip and MySQL.

Day 8: Running the Database and Burger Menu
Despite initial setbacks, we were able to run both the database and the burger menu, though this process was not without its complications. One of the significant challenges we faced was creating containers for different parts of the project. After careful consideration, we decided to implement Docker to manage these containers.

Day 9: Docker Implementation
Our solution involved creating three separate containers: one for the frontend, one for the backend, and one for the database. However, creating Docker container images proved to be highly complex and added another layer of difficulty to the process. We used the docker build . command to build the image, which works if a Dockerfile has been properly created in the project files.

Day 10: Useful Docker Commands
Additionally, docker ps was useful for displaying the running containers and their IDs, while docker images allowed us to check how many images we had and view their corresponding IDs. I used docker-compose build to create the containers and docker-compose up.

Day 11: Docker Commands List
The commands that we have used in order to create the images and the containers:

docker ps
docker build .
docker images
docker start
docker stop
docker-compose build
docker-compose up
Day 12: Testing and Debugging
I decided to create a container specifically for the kitchen view, but I faced many difficulties throughout the process. I attempted to solve these challenges. When I created a container for the kitchen view and began analyzing and debugging it, I encountered over 121 vulnerabilities and more than 594 packages, which I had no idea how to resolve or even what was causing these issues.

Day 13: Debugging Documentation for display_orders Function
I conducted a debugging session for the display_orders function in my Flask application using Visual Studio Code. Here’s a summary of the process:

Functionality Tested:
I focused on the display_orders function, which retrieves all orders from the database and filters them for display.

Breakpoints:
I set breakpoints after the line where orders are fetched (orders = Orders.query.all()) and right before the return statement. This allowed me to inspect the state of the application at critical points.

Debugger Controls:
I utilized the debugger controls:

Continue: To run the code until the next breakpoint.
Step Over: To execute the current line without diving into function calls.
Step Into: To go into the function being called if necessary.
Step Out: To exit the current function and return to the calling function.
Watched Variables:
I monitored the following variables:

orders: To check if the correct orders are fetched from the database.
filtered_orders_list: To see the results after filtering out unwanted keys.
result: To verify the final output string being constructed.
Tested Paths:
I tested different scenarios, such as:

Fetching orders with various attributes.
Modifying orders and checking how it impacts the output.
Ensuring that filtering correctly removes keys like id and burgerName.
Summary:
The debugging session clarified the data flow in the display_orders function and confirmed that the filtering logic worked as intended. Overall, debugging proved to be an invaluable tool for understanding the behavior of the code and ensuring the functionality met the project requirements.

Day 14: Tools Used for the Project
We have used several tools to complete our project, including Git, GitHub, Visual Studio Code, a database, Docker Desktop, pip, and Flask.

Day 15: Personal Reflection
Reflecting on my experience, I have faced numerous difficulties and challenges throughout this project. As someone who has never programmed before and was unfamiliar with many of the concepts we encountered, the process was particularly daunting. However, I was able to overcome these challenges with the support of my group members and guidance from our professor..